Title:
Hardware-Efficient Bosonic Quantum Error-Correcting Codes Based on  Symmetry Operators
Abstract: We establish a symmetry-operator framework for designing quantum error
correcting~(QEC) codes based on fundamental properties of the underlying system
dynamics. Based on this framework, we propose three hardware-efficient bosonic
QEC codes that are suitable for $\chi^{(2)}$-interaction based quantum
computation: the $\chi^{(2)}$ parity-check code, the $\chi^{(2)}$ embedded
error-correcting code, and the $\chi^{(2)}$ binomial code, all of which detect
photon-loss or photon-gain errors by means of photon-number parity measurements
and then correct them via $\chi^{(2)}$ Hamiltonian evolutions and linear-optics
transformations. Our symmetry-operator framework provides a systematic
procedure for finding QEC codes that are not stabilizer codes. The $\chi^{(2)}$
binomial code is of special interest because, with $m\le N$ identified from
channel monitoring, it can correct $m$-photon loss errors, $m$-photon gain
errors, and $(m-1)$th-order dephasing errors using logical qudits that are
encoded in $O(N)$ photons. In comparison, other bosonic QEC codes require
$O(N^2)$ photons to correct the same degree of bosonic errors. Such improved
photon-efficiency underscores the additional error-correction power that can be
provided by channel monitoring. We develop quantum Hamming bounds for
photon-loss errors in the code subspaces associated with the $\chi^{(2)}$
parity-check code and the $\chi^{(2)}$ embedded error-correcting code, and we
prove that these codes saturate their respective bounds. Our $\chi^{(2)}$ QEC
codes exhibit hardware efficiency in that they address the principal error
mechanisms and exploit the available physical interactions of the underlying
hardware, thus reducing the physical resources required for implementing their
encoding, decoding, and error-correction operations, and their universal
encoded-basis gate sets.
