Title:
Entity Consolidation: The Golden Record Problem
Abstract: Four key subprocesses in data integration are: data preparation (i.e.,
transforming and cleaning data), schema integration (i.e., lining up like
attributes), entity resolution (i.e., finding clusters of records that
represent the same entity) and entity consolidation (i.e., merging each cluster
into a "golden record" which contains the canonical values for each attribute).
In real scenarios, the output of entity resolution typically contains multiple
data formats and different abbreviations for cell values, in addition to the
omnipresent problem of missing data. These issues make entity consolidation
challenging.
In this paper, we study the entity consolidation problem. Truth discovery
systems can be used to solve this problem. They usually employ simplistic
heuristics such as majority consensus (MC) or source authority to determine the
golden record. However, these techniques are not capable of recognizing simple
data variation, such as Jeff to Jeffery, and may give biased results. To
address this issue, we propose to first reduce attribute variation by merging
duplicate values before applying the truth discovery system to create the
golden records. Comparing to the existing data transformation solutions, which
typically try to transform an entire column from one format to another, our
approach is more robust to data variety as we leverage the hidden matchings
within the clusters. We tried our methods on three real-world datasets. In the
best case, our methods reduced the variation in clusters by 75% with high
precision (>98%) by having a human confirm only 100 generated matching groups.
When we invoked our algorithm prior to running MC, we were able to improve the
precision of golden record creation by 40%.
